is the real reason your business isn't
growing on YouTube because you're saying
too much. Well, recently over 1,800
businesses submitted their channels to
me to be reviewed. And this was one of
the biggest mistakes I saw that is going
to stop their business ever getting
traction on YouTube. So, in this video,
I'm going to take one of those channels
and I'm going to put it through a
four-step system that's going to show
you how to go from making content that
is turning your viewers off to making
videos that attract your perfect buyers
who then go on to binge your channel and
grow it. You're going to learn why you
need to stop listing things, how to
optimize your videos to get clicks, and
how to make videos that keep your
viewers watching. All right, so this is
Connor's channel, and he wants to
attract seven and 8 figure business
owners. But it's not going to happen
with what he's doing. So, I'm going to
show you exactly why and what he needs
to change to fix that by putting it
through a four-step optimization system.
So, let's walk through the system to
turn this video here, how to actually
transform your business of AI into a
video that could actually grow his
channel. and I'm going to pull apart all
of the mistakes that are very common
that you're probably making too. Okay,
so the first thing we need to do in step
one is the most important part of
YouTube. Every single decision we make
is based around this one thing and if we
don't have clarity on it, nothing works
and that is known as your avatar. So
avatar is basically who is your dream
buyer? Who is the person you want to
flood your channel with? So they come to
your business and they buy your thing.
So the other thing you need to know is
what do those people actually care
about? what is their big problem? So,
the reason Connor<unk>'s channel will
never grow if he doesn't fix this is
because at the moment, what we can see
here is he has a video targeting people
who are interested in making 100K a day
in e-commerce. So, the avatar is
e-commerce owners and the problem is
they want to scale. The next video is
about running a marketing agency using
AI. So, the avatar is marketing agency
owners who want to use AI. Completely
different audience to e-commerce. So
nobody will come back to his channel and
he'll just end up getting a few hundred
views per video forever unless he fixes
this. And again, this video here is
about AI agents explained. Super broad
advice. The avatar is anyone interested
in AI agents. The problem they have is
fixing them. So his channel is not built
in a way that can grow his business or
his following. So [snorts] we need to
fix it. So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to make up the avatar for Connor's
channel and then we're going to build a
video around it. And I'm going to show
you how to optimize your videos so it
appeals to your dream buyer. So I'm
going to say his avatar is a 7 to 8
figure business owner. And the problem
they want to solve is scaling without
bloat and chaos, which basically means
making more money without adding more
stuff on and having a really stressful,
chaotic life. Now doing a bit of
research on Connor, that feels kind of
in line with what he wants. So now we
know that, what we're going to do is
this. So let's just imagine that a video
has three key parts to it. We have the
thumbnail and the title. We have the
introduction. And we just have the
content inside. When we know who that
avatar is, we create thumbnails and
titles that appeal to them. Then we
write intros that appeal to them. And
then we make all of our content appeal
to them. If we start trying to appeal to
other people that aren't them, guess
what? The people who are going to grow
our business, they get bored and they
leave. And this does not work. So let's
look at how to do that now. So, the
second step here is we need to fix
Connor's packaging so that we can make a
video that will grow his channel and
appeal to his dream buyers. So, the
first part of his packaging is his
title. And let me show you a few things
about it that really wreck its
performance. Firstly, we don't need
random stars. They do nothing. So, that
adds visual complexity which is making
this harder to read. Secondly, what
Connor said here is business with AI and
then he said AI for business. So, just
we don't need that. It's the same thing
said twice. Now look at that. How much
easier is that title to read
significantly. And this is a game of
speed. We need people's eyes to lock
onto our titles. So that is the first
problem. And then the thing that I
really have a problem with in this title
is this word transform. Nobody wakes up
in the morning and goes I want to
transform my business with AI today.
They go oh my gosh my team it's scaling
out of control. Sue's off.
That means I've got to do the work. I
wish there was some sort of thing that
could get more work done for me in less
time. So, we need to call out the
specific problem that your viewers
actually care about because they don't
care about transforming. They care about
something more specific. So, that's why
that title doesn't work and will not
grow your channel. So, I've written a
few titles just to show you how we could
fix this. These are not researched. I
just came up with them off the top of my
head, but I'll break down why they work
better. So I built seven AI systems that
run my business for me. So seven AI
systems specific run my business for me.
That's the specific result people want.
Who are your dream buyers? So we're
calling out the avatar in the title. How
to systematize specific result your
entire business in 30 days. Very
specific result with AI. Big businesses,
they like the word systematize. Smaller
ones don't. So we're just making a title
that appeals to the right people. Now,
before I move on, let's just pull out a
quick problem with this title because I
think this is a big mistake a lot of
small channels make. And that is the
word I. So, until I had a quarter of a
million subscribers on my old channel,
no one clicked on thumbnails that I was
in. And I realized, oh, no one really
cares about me. And that is the same
with titles. And I often encourage my
clients who are smaller channels maybe
not to go too heavy on I did this titles
because no one really cares about us.
Now, they can blow up. They can be
amazing, but it's just a word of
warning. Say like if someone doesn't
know you, they might be interested more
in themselves than they are your
backstory. Then there's a few more
options here. Seven AI systems that will
run your business for you. Seven systems
that turn seven figure businesses into
eight figure businesses. It's too long.
Seven AI systems that run my 8 figureure
business. I like that one. The exact AI
system running my 8 figure business.
Quite like that one. How I use AI agents
to run my 8 figure business. I like
these two. So, that's just an example of
how to create a more valuable title for
Connor's dream avatar. Next, let's have
a look at his thumbnail and pull out
some of the problems with this thing.
So, in 2023, this would have been a
great thumbnail, but times have moved on
a lot. So, let's think about your avatar
again, the seven, eight figure business
owners. Are they clicking on thumbnails
that look like they're packed full of e-
numbers? And the answer is no. Because
these sort of videos are cliche in the
way that their thumbnails are made.
They're usually on side hustle channels,
usually on channels teaching people how
to make their first 10K. And they appeal
to a very different type of viewer. If
we look at the trend on YouTube as to
what appeals to 7 to 8 figure business
owners, it's boring, ugly thumbnails.
And the reason that they like this is
because they are actively trying to
avoid this sort of content because they
want the deeper stuff, the nononsense
stuff. And your packaging is basically
just very outofdate and won't do that.
No offense. So once we have done our
funnel and title, we can then move on to
write our intro. And what I'm going to
do is I'm going to play Connor's intro
and we're going to break it down bit by
bit cuz he makes some of the really
common mistakes I see every day. So
stick with me. 25 seconds. Now before I
play this to you, I want to make the
importance of specificness in a title
clearer. So you see his title, how to
actually transform your business with AI
for businesses. Think about if you were
going to click on that, what do you want
to be given inside the video? And then
when you're watching this introduction,
ask yourself, is he giving me the thing
I expected? If the answer is no, that's
when the viewer's gone.
>> Picture this. You've got a growing
business. Customers are coming in and
you're excited. But behind the scenes,
it is total chaos. You've got manual
processes everywhere. Your team's
knowledge is scattered across 12
different apps. And that one person who
knows how everything works just went on
vacation. That sound familiar? You also
hear about AI everywhere. I mean, it's
meant to fix all of this. But it seems
like the landscape changes weekly with
flashy new tools and hyped up videos on
your YouTube homepage. And as a business
owner, you don't have time to sift
through all of the noise or experiment
with new tools which might be obsolete
next month. Here's the truth about AI in
business that
>> All right. So, I can tell Connor is in
marketing because he understands setting
up the problem. But I can also tell he's
not quite the YouTuber he will one day
be because his introduction was so long.
It's not even finished yet. We're only
at the start. So, let's have a look at
what went wrong there. So, let's analyze
this hook. So, a hook, it's basically
supposed to be one line long, and it's
supposed to make your ideal viewer go,
"Oh, this sounds like something that
might interest me." That's kind of it.
It [laughter] gets their attention. It
makes them curious to want to listen to
the second line. That's pretty much its
job. So Connor does pretty good job of
saying, "Picture this. You're growing a
business. Customers are coming in.
You're excited. Behind the scenes, it's
chaos. You've got manual processes." So
he's painting the picture of his target
viewers biggest problem. Which will hook
them. They'll sit there going, "This is
exactly what's happening to me. This guy
gets me." And they'll like that. But
then he turns around and goes, "You're
also here. AI is everywhere. It's meant
to fix all of this, but it seems like
your landscape changes with It's like,
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Let's break this
down a sec. Customers are coming in and
you're excited. One, behind the scenes
is total chaos. Two, you've got manual
processes everywhere. Three, your team's
knowledge is scattered across 12 maps.
Four, and the person who knows
everything worse is on location. Five,
sound familiar? You also hear about AI
everywhere. Six, is meant to fix all of
this, but it sees that landscape changes
weekly. Seven, with flashing new tools
and high issue homage. And and as a
business owner, you don't have time to
shift through all the noise. Eight, with
tools that might be obsolete next month.
That is nine problems you have thrown at
a viewer in an introduction. It is
incredibly overwhelming and it's
basically just a list and no one clicks
on a YouTube video going, "Do you know
what? I want a list of all the problems
I might have." [laughter]
So, what we need to do is just pick one
and we need to build it around the
title. So, I've decided to come up with
this title that was seven new AI systems
that will run your business for you.
[snorts] The reason I came up with this
title is new gets you more views. AI
gets you more views. systems is a word
that's going to appeal to his avatar and
that's the result they want too. So I
feel kind of good about that title and
instead of throwing a ton of problems
I'm just going to say this. Most
businesses want to use AI but fear
implementing it might wreck their tried
and tested systems. That's it. I'm just
calling out one thing and that might not
be the right thing but it's far more
effective. So let's move on to the rest
of his introduction which makes the same
mistake everyone makes. And as a
business owner, you don't have time to
sift through all of the noise or
experiment with new tools which might be
obsolete next month. Here's the truth
about AI in business that nobody is
talking about. Most businesses want to
use AI, but get stuck in a nightmare of
fragmented systems, knowledge silos, and
fears that implementing it might
actually make things worse. Now, I'm
Connor Sunderland, and here's the thing.
My main business isn't even an AI
company. I'm a business owner just like
you who needed real solutions, not shiny
objects. Everything I'm about to show
you isn't theoretical. These are the
exact AI systems that we built and use
every day in our own operations. We eat
our own cooking here. So if I'm
recommending something that doesn't
work, I am the first person to be harmed
by it.
>> I hope you didn't pay anyone to write
this for you. [laughter] So he finished
the two hooks here and then he set up
another problem. So actually it was like
10 problems and said most businesses
want to use AI but get stuck in a
nightmare of fragmented systems. Like so
again more problem there's about 13
problems listed and we've not even into
the video yet. So really this should
have been your hook. Most businesses
want to use AI but get stuck in a
nightmare of fragmented systems.
Knowledge silos. Knowledge silos is a
very corporate word. Even as a seven to
eight figure business owner and fears
that information might make things
worse, right? All right. So, let's go
back to the title. Remember I said to
you, pay attention to what you expect
this video to deliver based on the
title. We are a minute in and I would be
very certain that 99% of you all turned
around and went, "This is not what I
want." Because transform is too general
in a title. So, some of you might have
wanted to build AI systems. Some of you
might have wanted to do recruitment.
Some of you might have wanted to do
marketing. So, if we leave with a
general title and then come in with a
specific intro, it puts people off and
they leave. Now, the next problem with
this intro is this. You introduce
yourself and then you say, "My main
business isn't even an AI company. I'm
just a business owner like you." Why are
you giving us advice on AI then? Like,
don't include that. And then you say,
"Everything about shoot isn't
theoretical." because you haven't set up
any value and because you've given us no
specific information in this video,
everything I'm about to show you doesn't
get me excited. It confuses me cuz I'm
like, what's he going to show me? Why
does it matter to me? And then you say,
these are the exact AI systems we built
and use every day in operations. But I
don't know anything about you, so why
would I care about your operations? And
then you say, we eat our own cooking, so
I recommend something that doesn't work.
I'm going to be the first person to be
harm of it. Well, again, I don't know
any specific details about what this is
going to do to me in this entire
introduction. So, I don't care about
anything you've said, meaning this video
could never work. So, how do we fix it?
Well, I've rewritten it. I'm going to
read it to you. So, this time my title
is seven new AI systems that will run
your business for you. And the hook is
most businesses want to use AI but fear
implementing it might wreck their tried
and tested systems. But there are seven
AI I use every day that now save 20 to
30 hours of work a week across
departments. They cut meetings and
onboarding times in half and increase
profit margins 50% without hiring more
people. So in this video I'm going to
show you what they are and exactly how
to use them without wrecking what's
already working for you. So the hook
short calls out the problem. Then I set
up very specific value the things that a
seven to eight figure business owner
wants to hear. saving 20 to 30 hours
work. That sounds amazing. Cutting
meeting times and onboarding times,
increasing profit margins 50%. And now
as a viewer, I'm like, "This is
everything I want in my life." And then
you say, "I'm going to show you how to
get it." It's like, "Perfect. I'm in.
Where do I sign?" So, we have a hook.
We've set up the problem. We've called
out the avatar. We've matched their
expectations as to what they expected
when they clicked. And I've said, "This
has already worked for me, so I'm
credible." Your introduction doesn't
make you sound credible at all because
it assumes people know who you are. And
on YouTube, no one knows who we are.
Even if we have 3 million subscribers,
no one knows who we are cuz there's
billions of people who haven't seen us
in the world. So, always write to the
cold audience. All right. So, that's the
intro. Then, we're going to move on to
this section of the script and continue
to unpack what's stopping this working.
With manual, time-conuming processes
where essential knowledge is scattered
across tools are stuck in people's
heads. Your growth is literally breaking
your systems. What worked at five
clients is falling apart at 15 or 30.
And the AI you're using well wealth. All
of the value walks out the door when
someone leaves because there's no
centralized system. Your leadership is
constantly asking are we up or are we
down and scrambling for answers.
>> Right. I'll cut you there. But you get
the idea. This section of the video just
cut because bear in mind our
introduction listed 13 different
problems. You're now just listing more
problems. This is this video is just a
problem list. But also the visuals are
very complex and overwhelming. So this
line here is far too close to the line
below. It makes readability very hard.
The text is very small on a mobile as
well. And a majority of your viewers are
probably going to come from mobile. And
your engagement and presenting level
just dropped. You went from really
engaging on camera to a guy reading
slides, which historically is the worst
way to present information and everyone
hates listening to. So, you don't need
to list all of these problems if you
know your intro because I've set up the
one problem that this whole video is
designed to solve in a sentence. So,
what you're doing is the classic thing
of overinforming.
And a good video isn't about getting
every detail in. It's about including
only the thing that matters so that the
viewer wants to get to the next line. So
I would just cut that entire system and
then let's move on to his first point
where Connor actually does something
very well. And most people do not do
this very well. So I'm going to show you
what that is. And then I'm going to show
you how to turn the problem this point
has into a script that eliminates it.
See if you can spot the problem. I'll
give you a clue. It's the same problem
we've had throughout. and very
ineffective. So, let's start by auditing
your business to find the highest impact
AI opportunities. The most successful AI
implementations that we've done for
clients start with a simple audit of
your business's operations. We're going
to look at seven key departments of your
business: marketing, sales, product,
operations, technology, people and
leadership, and finance. Now, grab a
piece of paper or open your notes up
because I want you to grade each
department based on two things. First,
[music] how much pain is each department
causing in your business right now? And
secondly, how much potential upside
could be unlocked by you fixing this?
For example, if your marketing team is
spending hours every single day on
writing posts which don't really get any
engagements across social media, well,
you could call that maybe a seven in
pain. But if we're looking at that
because it's in the domain of content
marketing, the potential upside of that
is probably a 10 if you really nailed
it. If we were to look at your sales
team that was spending a ton of time on
manual data entry and qualifying leads
instead of actually closing deals and
building relationships, we would
probably say the pain there is an eight
and that the potential upside is also
maybe a nine.
>> Okay, so let's start with what he did
well to give you a little break from
that. Right, let's have a look at this
down here. We can see he's used chapters
so we can see when one point begins and
another one ends. What he did well was
this line here. So he says,
>> "So let's start by auditing your
business to find the highest impact AI
opportunities." Now, the wording is not
great, but what he has done is basically
give people a why. So, let me explain.
Hardly anyone ever does this. Wrecks
their videos. So, the point of your
title is to tell people what you're
going to tell them. And then in your
intro, you tell people what you're going
to tell them. And at the start of your
first point, you tell people what you're
going to tell them. And at the start of
your second point, you tell people what
you're going to tell them. And then at
the start of the third, you tell people
what you're going to tell them. And at
the end, you tell them what you're going
to tell them next. That's it. So that
line there is known as a transition and
it says this is what's coming next. So
the viewer understands why this matters
and this is taken and this is a
storytelling technique. I mean think
about every story you've ever watched.
Something happens right here at the
start that you want to know the outcome
to and you'll stick around to the end to
hear it. But if you didn't know why
someone had gone on an adventure, it
wouldn't make any sense. You'd be like,
"What? What are they trying to do? Where
are they going?" And you'd get confused.
So, you constantly need to be telling
people what you're going to tell them
and why it matters to him. Now, the
problem Connor had here is I don't think
he pitched a specific enough or
interesting enough result to hook
people. So, when I show you my rewrite,
I'll show you how to solve that. The
next problem he had is this. Continuing
on the theme of a giant list, Connor
listed seven things and then said,
"Here's two steps." and then continued
to just list stuff, making complexity
spike and viewers not pay attention. So,
we've had here's seven things, here's
two things you need to do. Here's your
marketing team. Score it a seven and a
nine. Here's your sales team. Score it a
five and a three. And what it will do is
it will just completely overload
viewers. So, what do you do instead?
Well, this is what I would do. I've
rewritten his point and I'll show you.
So what you need to understand is what
Connor has done is give you all of the
information, but he's an expert in what
he does. So he understands data spat out
in this way. Most people are not. Even
if you're after seven or eight figure
business owners, I'm one. I wouldn't
have sat through and listened to that
cuz it's just too overwhelming. So what
we have to do is work out what's the
easiest way for people to understand the
thing we want to teach them so that they
go, I get it. and him giving multiple
examples of how to score things. We get
it after the first explanation. So he's
overexlaining and when you overexlain
you add in complexity which overloads
your viewer's brain. So I would have
written it like this and I would have
started with a transition to start. You
need to establish where in your business
you'll get the biggest return from
installing AI. is a nice specific simple
transition. And then I'm going to lead
with the least complex explanation of
how this works ever, a story. So when I
first did this, I tried to install it in
our marketing department because it felt
like the area that was giving me the
biggest headache at the time. But
although it saved the team a ton of
time, when we looked at the impact it
actually had on profit, it was marginal.
However, when we set it up in sales,
which didn't seem like the biggest
headache at the time, we saw our sales
team's close rate double. So to work out
where to start setting up AI in your
business, write down what's giving you
the biggest headache and then score how
much of an impact fixing it might have
on your business. Do this across every
department. Then start with the one that
has the biggest upside. Now you know
that I'm going to show you how we
implemented AI into the seven key areas
of my business to increase productivity,
profit, and scalability. So this entire
section of his video that is like three
minutes long have summed up with a story
and let the viewers go, "Yeah, I get it.
Cool. Move on." And we we do need to
take into consideration sometimes that
our viewers have a brain and don't need
to be handed lists. And then we move on
to the end of the video, which sounds
like this. There'll be those who use AI
to solve real problems and real
bottlenecks within their businesses as
they continue to grow. the ones that use
AI not to replace human touch, but to
enhance it by removing the tedious and
robotic parts of that human's job.
You've seen what's possible. You've seen
what AI can do. Now, it's time to make
it happen within your business. All
right? So, what you need to understand
is the end of your video is more
important than the start. And is your
goal to get people to click on this end
screen. Why? Well, because the first
time someone discovers you, they're
cold. By the time they get to the end of
your video, they're a little bit warmer.
And what you will see if you look in
your YouTube studio is the views you get
on end screens, the retention is
significantly higher than anywhere else
on YouTube. So I get 70% retention
sometimes on these videos. And the more
retention we get, the more sales power
our content has. So Connor winds down
the video, which provides no value and
tells the viewer this is over. Doesn't
set up a reason to watch anything else.
And therefore wrecks pretty much all of
the selling power of this video. and the
thing that makes YouTube such a
wonderful marketing tool. So instead,
what you do is you turn around and you
set up the problem they still have and
you tell them the next video will solve
it like this. Okay, so now I have showed
you how to structure a video so that you
can keep people interested and turn them
into buyers. Once you've filmed it, you
need to know how to edit the thing to
keep them engaged. Otherwise, all of
that work went to waste. So watch this
video next and I'll teach you editing
that turns viewers into buyers. And that
was the end of my